# 8. Member Quotes

We've asked members to share why they think the Protocol Guild is important for Ethereum: here are their responses.

---

**Adrian Manning** - "Lighthouse is the rust implementation of Ethereum 2. Ethereum 2 is important for Ethereum to transition to PoS and is necessary for Ethereum to scale layer 1. Although Lighthouse is one of a few major production Eth2 clients, its imperative that more than 1 production client is used in the space to avoid the chain collapsing if bugs/vulnerabilities are found in a single client." <br><br>
**Core Dev** - "Establishing financial incentives for core developers will be an important facet of retaining talent to produce high quality protocol-level work." <br><br>
**Core Dev** - "Incentive alignment is one of the core issues that impact the long term health of a software/network. I think the Protocol Guild helps solve a part of the incentive alignment problem by allowing members to gain exposure to the network they are developing. I feel like it will go a long way in helping keep and onboard new core developers, as well as ensure everyone has skin in the game." <br><br>
**Core Dev** - "The Ethereum ecosystem is capable of delivering enormous value. But a huge disparity has arisen between the rewards available to those who build the Ethereum protocol and those who build _on_ the Ethereum protocol. The whole community should be concerned about this: unless the foundations are continually maintained and improved, the entire building is at risk. Almost uniquely, our own technology gives us the tools to align all our incentives. The Protocol Guild is a creative approach to recognising and rewarding the foundation-builders - essential if we want to continue to deliver on Ethereum's promise long into the future." <br><br>
**Justin Florentine** - "Funding public goods is a hard problem, I look forward to making some mistakes along the way so others can learn from us. Someone's gotta try!" <br><br>
**Łukasz Rozmej** - "Client diversity, R&D (Account Abstraction, MEV, Witness Protocol)" <br><br>
**Michael Sproul** - "I love that Protocol Guild centers individual contributors ahead of organisations, and in doing so grants autonomy to all of the people working on Ethereum's base layer. We have an opportunity to prove the viability of an alternative funding model for public goods, which I hope will inspire many more experiments in radical economic coordination." <br><br>
**potuz** - "End user applications stand on the shoulders of core development. In a world with multiple competing personal and institutional interests, this project helps keeping those interests as far away from the Ethereum protocol as possible" <br><br>
**Preston Van Loon** - "Client software powers the Ethereum network!" <br><br>
**Raul Jordan** - "The Ethereum Foundation has a philosophy of subtraction. That is, it aims to be irrelevant over time as grassroots teams take over development, research, and community. We started working on a consensus client because of the immense potential we see in introducing new engineers to build public goods for Ethereum, just as we did. We believe being an independent team that has built a popular client helps inspire others to do the same and grow the ethos of Ethereum's decentralized development." <br><br>
**Tim Beiko** - "Aligning the incentives of the people supporting the Ethereum protocol with the success of the applications built on top of it allows these motivated contributors to keep doing what they do best, building Ethereum, while also being rewarded with some of the value they help create. " <br><br>
