# 9. Member Quotes

We've asked members to share why they think the Protocol Guild is important for Ethereum: here are their responses.

---

**Adrian Manning (Lighthouse)** - "Lighthouse is the Rust implementation of Ethereum Beacon Chain, a key component in Ethereum's transition to PoS Although Lighthouse is one of a few major production Eth2 clients, it's imperative that more than 1 production client is used in the space to avoid the chain collapsing if bugs/vulnerabilities are found in a single client. Protocol Guild supports the teams working on minority clients, which is an important initiative." <br><br>
**Alex Stokes (EF Research)** - "The Protocol Guild is an experiment in public goods funding that aims to align the incentives of core protocol contributors with the continued stewardship of the ecosystem by allowing these contributors to share in the value created by their hard work. This mechanism is important for the future of Ethereum as it ensures continuity of protocol direction, maintenance, and growth amongst a set of dedicated individuals who deeply care about realizing the collective vision that inspires everyone who interacts with our community." <br><br>
**Ansgar Dietrichs (Quilt)** - "I strongly believe that not enshrining a contributor funding mechanism into the base chain was the correct choice for Ethereum (crucial for its credible neutrality). But in order to keep attracting top level talent to the core dev space, we need to experiment with out-of-protocol ways of funding. Protocol Guild is a very exciting project in that regard and hopefully a first step towards a sustainable funding structure." <br><br>
**Anton Nashatyrev (TXRX)** - "I would really love to see Guild as an instrument for long term incentivisation of people who just want to develop Ethereum and don't want to worry about buying food for themselves tomorrow " <br><br>
**Carl Beekhuizen (EF Research)** - "As researchers we spend a lot of time worrying about incentive compatibility. This guild nudges us towards a better incentive landscape for those working on the protocol." <br><br>
**Core Contributor** - "A huge ecosystem is building up upon the base Ethereum protocol. If we want this base layer to remain independent and maintained like a true public good, incentive alignment is a key factor. Let's make the Protocol Guild an inspiring and successful experiment!   " <br><br>
**Core Contributor** - "Decentralized Apps. Decentralized Ecosystem. Decentralized Funding." <br><br>
**Core Contributor** - "Establishing financial incentives for core developers will be an important facet of retaining talent to produce high quality protocol-level work." <br><br>
**Core Contributor** - "Ethereum is public infrastructure for the world. Building infrastructure is hard, because everyone wants to enjoy it, but no one wants to be the chump left paying the bill, which often induces zero-sum thinking and protecting one's own interests rather than contributing. Protocol Guild ensures stability for those who choose to contribute and creates an environment of positive-sum thinking, powered entirely by the Ethereum ecosystem and the value it brings to the world." <br><br>
**Core Contributor** - "I believe this experiment will result in a great precedent on how to keep the core values of the Ethereum protocol alive and relevant." <br><br>
**Core Contributor** - "Incentive alignment is one of the core issues that impact the long term health of a software/network. I think the Protocol Guild helps solve a part of the incentive alignment problem by allowing members to gain exposure to the network they are developing. I feel like it will go a long way in helping keep and onboard new core developers, as well as ensure everyone has skin in the game." <br><br>
**Core Contributor** - "Let's make base layer r&d long term sexy!" <br><br>
**Core Contributor** - "maybe the log4j exploit might not have happened with more funding, let's try to make the same not happening on Ethereum." <br><br>
**Core Contributor** - "Motivating talent towards Ethereum development is critical to stay competitive in this dynamic industry." <br><br>
**Core Contributor** - "prysm implements the ethereum beacon chain proof of stake protocol. The beacon chain is important because eliminating proof of work is a moral imperative. Multiple implementations of the beacon chain do and should exist for the resilience of the network. prysm is written in go, which is a language designed to minimize the complexity of strongly typed, highly concurrent source code. This means that prysm can be performant, have good support for safety and correctness, while also being built from source code that is easier to read and audit than other system languages. More eyes on the implementation should lead to greater understanding of how the system works and more confidence in the network." <br><br>
**Core Contributor** - "The Ethereum ecosystem is capable of delivering enormous value. But a huge disparity has arisen between the rewards available to those who build the Ethereum protocol and those who build _on_ the Ethereum protocol. The whole community should be concerned about this: unless the foundations are continually maintained and improved, the entire building is at risk. Almost uniquely, our own technology gives us the tools to align all our incentives. The Protocol Guild is a creative approach to recognising and rewarding the foundation-builders - essential if we want to continue to deliver on Ethereum's promise long into the future." <br><br>
**Core Contributor** - "The Ethereum Foundation, however successful beyond what might have been reasonably expected of it, still comprises a single point of failure. The protocol guild can help ensure the values the foundation has helped shepherd can sustainably adapt in a decentralized fashion consistent with Ethereum's core principles." <br><br>
**Core Contributor** - "The whole is greater than the sum of the parts.  But without the parts there is no whole. This project addresses the parts without diminishing the whole." <br><br>
**Dmitry Khovratovich (EF Research)** - "We work on a number of projects: VDFs, zero knowledge protocols, validator secure selection, -- which all make Ethereum 2.0 faster, secure, and simple. We are taking the best from the most advanced cryptographic schemes today, and sometimes invent new ones." <br><br>
**Gary Schulte (Besu)** - "Narrowing the incentive gap between Ethereum core-protocol work and the more lucrative application space is an important effort worth putting time and resources into. " <br><br>
**Jiri Peinlich (Besu)** - "We should be among the first who try new ways of organizing enabled by the decentralized paradigm. This example will hopefully inspire other groups to self organize and self govern. " <br><br>
**Justin Florentine (Besu)** - "Funding public goods is a hard problem, I look forward to making some mistakes along the way so others can learn from us. Someone's gotta try!" <br><br>
**Kaan Uzdogan (Solidity)** - "The misaligned incentives in FOSS are well known and already causing problems. Particularly in the Ethereum space, the financial incentives to move away from protocol building to a for-profit project are high and we can't rely on core developers' altruism forever. Protocol Guild is a valuable experiment both for the sustainability of Ethereum infrastructure, as well as the broader open source ecosystem. " <br><br>
"**Mamy Ratsimbazafy (Nimbus)** - ""So that the value created by Ethereum isn't just captured by those who build on top but also benefits those that build the foundations. We don't want a situation like https://xkcd.com/2347/"" <br><br>"
**Mark Mackey (Lighthouse)** - "Every core developer I've talked to is well aware that they can earn significantly more working in other fields or even just at the application layer. I personally couldn't even afford to join this effort until I was able to subsidize myself. This is strange for an industry acutely aware of incentive structures. If we care about the long-term heath of the base layer, it is important we mitigate this so we can attract and retain talent." <br><br>
**Michael Sproul (Lighthouse)** - "I love that Protocol Guild centers individual contributors ahead of organisations, and in doing so grants autonomy to all of the people working on Ethereum's base layer. We have an opportunity to prove the viability of an alternative funding model for public goods, which I hope will inspire many more experiments in radical economic coordination." <br><br>
**Nishant Das (Prysmatic)** - "The Protocol Guild helps keep core developers focused on protocol work rather than jumping to the application layer where the upside is significantly more. Having a sustainable source of funding for public goods such as protocol work is valuable. " <br><br>
**potuz (Prysmatic)** - "End user applications stand on the shoulders of core development. In a world with multiple competing personal and institutional interests, this project helps keeping those interests as far away from core Ethereum development as possible." <br><br>
**Preston Van Loon (Prysmatic)** - "Client software powers the Ethereum network! Crafting mechanisms to support the teams working on it long into the future is an important project." <br><br>
**Raul Jordan (Prysmatic)** - "The Ethereum Foundation has a philosophy of subtraction. That is, it aims to be irrelevant over time as grassroots teams take over development, research, and community. We started working on a consensus client because of the immense potential we see in introducing new engineers to build public goods for Ethereum, just as we did. We believe being an independent team that has built a popular client helps inspire others to do the same and grow the ethos of Ethereum's decentralized development. hopefully the Protocol Guild will also inspire more contributors to join us in maintaining the core protocol." <br><br>
**Tim Beiko (EF Protocol Support)** - "Aligning the incentives of the people supporting the Ethereum protocol with the success of the applications built on top of it allows these motivated contributors to keep doing what they do best, building Ethereum, while also being rewarded with some of the value they help create. " <br><br>
**Tomasz Stanzeck (Nethermind)** - "Protocol Guild is a well planned and honestly designed experiment for protocol development." <br><br>
**Zahary Karadzhov (Nimbus)** - "This project can empower many individual contributors to start working on Ethereum without the backing of a large corporate sponsor." <br><br>
